MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XVII - DESIGN-BUILD WORK
1. In addition to the work required in the Subcontract Agreement, and in the event the Work Order requires Subcontractor to perform design-build work, then
this Article is applicable. General Contractor retains Subcontractor to provide all design services necessary or incidental to complete Subcontractor's
portion(s) of the Work, in accordance with and reasonably inferable from that which is indicated in the Subcontract Documents, and consistent with the
progress schedule prepared by General Contractor. Subcontractor agrees to perform such design work under the general direction of General Contractor and
subject to the final approval of General Contractor, Owner and the Owner's Architect and/or Engineer.
2. Design services provided by Subcontractor shall be procured from licensed design professionals retained by Subcontractor or furnished by licensed employees
of Subcontractor. The standard of care for design services performed under this Agreement shall be the care and skill ordinarily used by members of the
architectural and engineering professions practicing under similar conditions at the same time and locality. The person(s) or entity(s) providing design
services for Subcontractor shall be referred to as "the Designer". If the Designer is an independent professional, the design services shall be procured pursuant
to a separate agreement between Subcontractor and the Designer. Subcontractor shall notify General Contractor in writing if it intends to change the
Designer, which shall be subject to General Contractor's approval. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for coordinating its design with all other elements
of the Project design.
3. Subcontractor shall furnish its best skill and judgment in the performance of the Subcontract and shall perform its design work to the satisfaction of General
Contractor, the Owner and the Architect/Engineer, so that General Contractor may fulfill its obligations to the Owner. Subcontractor shall be responsible for
taking field dimensions, providing tests, providing certifications and obtaining required permits as required to meet Subcontractor's design services.
Subcontractor will coordinate with the Architect/Engineer, General Contractor, and General Contractor's other subcontractors, in designing its portion of the
work to avoid inconsistencies and conflict in design.
4. Subcontractor will not be entitled to a change order for additional work required due to (i) failure to coordinate its design with the work of others; (ii) errors or
omissions by Subcontractor or the Designer in preparing construction documents related to its Work; or (iii) omission of construction work that was required
by, or reasonably inferable from, the Subcontractor's design or the Project design.
5. In addition to other warranties provided in the Subcontract Agreement, Subcontractor warrants that its design will meet or exceed any performance
requirements set forth in the Contract Documents.
6. Ownership of Documents. Upon payment to the Subcontractor pursuant to the Subcontract, General Contractor shall receive ownership of the documents,
drawings, specifications, electronic data and information prepared, provided or procured by the Subcontractor, any of its subcontractors, or the Designer for
the Project ("Design-Build Documents").
7. If provided in the Owner-General Contractor Agreement, the Owner shall receive from the General Contractor the same ownership of property rights of the
Design-Build Documents, as the General Contractor received from the Subcontractor, in accordance with ownership of documents provisions of the Owner-
General Contractor Agreement. In accordance with the Owner-General Contractor Agreement, the Owner may use, reproduce or make derivative works from
the Design-Build Documents for subsequent renovation and remodeling of the Work, but shall not use, reproduce or make derivative works from the Design-
Build Documents for other projects without the written authorization of the General Contractor and Subcontractor. Similarly, Subcontractor shall obtain from
its Designer property rights and rights of use that correspond to the provisions herein.
8. Professional Liability Insurance. In addition to the insurance required by the Subcontract, Subcontractor at its sole cost will purchase and maintain
professional liability insurance with limits of at least $2,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate, and a deductible of no more than $100,000. This coverage
must include an extended reporting period extending for at least three years after the date of Substantial Completion of the Work as a whole. Subcontractor
must provide written confirmation at least once a year that this coverage remains in effect, during the entire period for which coverage is required. The policy
must be endorsed or otherwise confirmed to cover the errors and omissions of the Designer, all subconsultants, subcontractors or contract employees of the
Subcontractor who carry out professional design or engineering services required by this Subcontract Agreement, as well as those of the Subcontractor itself.
The policy shall bear a retroactive date adequate to cover all professional services rendered for the Work, whether actually performed before or after this
Subcontract is executed. A Certificate of Insurance must be submitted prior to the commencement of design services, and thereafter upon reasonable request
by General Contractor. The coverage of such policies shall not be subject to declining limits for the costs of defense.
ARTICLE XVIII - ENTIRE AGREEMENT
1. This Subcontract as defined herein constitutes the entire agreement between General Contractor and Subcontractor. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified in any way except as herein provided, and no term or condition of the Subcontract Documents shall be waived or modified by the General Contractor
except in writing and signed by an officer of the General Contractor.
PMSC07_110 Page 14 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017