MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
35. If required, Subcontractor’s employees shall wear identifying garments and exhibit identification credentials, which the Owner may issue, in order for
Subcontractor’s employees to gain access to the Project or portions thereof for performance of the Work. Subcontractor shall be required to return any and all
identification credentials once the Work is completed.
36. Subcontractor's employees possessing or using alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs on the Jobsite will be asked to leave and will be refused future access to the
Jobsite. Smoking is allowed only in designated areas. Smoking on the jobsite is not permitted, which includes any type of electronic cigarettes, liquids,
vaping accessories, et cetera.
37. No playing of radios, Bluetooth devices, iPads, iPods, headphones of any type, or other broadcasting devices shall be permitted within/or surrounding the
project site boundaries.
38. Subcontractor shall not place or paint signage of any type on temporary offices/storage containers on or near building site, the building structures, site fencing,
et cetera.
39. Subcontractor represents and warrants that it uses e-mail to send and receive business communications and asserts that it has a working e-mail address that is
checked at least once per day. Subcontractor acknowledges that e-mail and other Internet use constitute an integral method of transacting business for the
Project. Project related documents to be transmitted via e-mail include notices, Contracts, Change Orders, billings, drawings, directives, Request for
Information (RFI) response, submittal responses, et cetera.
40. In the event General Contractor is required to participate in ongoing Value Engineering for the project, Subcontractor at no additional cost shall fully
participate in General Contractor’s effort upon request by providing alternate finishes, materials, means of construction, et cetera that will preserve the intent
of the design yet provide cost or schedule savings to the project.
41. Subcontractor shall assume a certain number of weather delays to be included in their overall contract schedule durations. Subcontractor acknowledges that
the project schedule contemplates 12 working days of weather delays each year, such that Subcontractor shall not be entitled to an extension of the contract
time for the first twelve (12) working days of weather delays per year. Subcontractor’s sole remedy for weather delays and the resulting ''dryout'' time beyond
the included rainfall days is extension of time only. The term ''weather delay'' shall mean and include all weather impacts including, but not limited to, rain or
other weather condition which materially impairs the ability to perform work four (4) hours or more in a work day.
42. Subcontractor is responsible to provide all layouts for its work from survey control points and lines, including all building corners, grid lines, offsets, et cetera.
The lines as chalk lined on concrete to be applied with a method that can be cleaned off easily. No permanent markings shall be allowed on the concrete
decks (i.e.: paint, sharpies, keel, et cetera). These permanent marking methods are known to bleed through onto the finished flooring surfaces, especially vinyl
products. Any permanent markings made by accident shall be removed at once with a means to remove the entirety of the material used to make the mark. If
removal is not sufficient, General Contractor may remove the markings and back charge the specific trade for this Work.
43. Subcontractor shall provide flag men for all trucking operations, material and equipment delivery, mobilization and demobilization, as needed.
44. Subcontractor acknowledges that several move-ins will be required of Subcontractor to complete its work as directed by General Contractor, and that all
associated costs are included in the Subcontract Sum. Project has been broken into multiple phases and multiple areas will be under construction
simultaneously requiring multiple crews, shift, et cetera. It is understood that each phase of work will consist of multiple trades working together in the same
space. Subcontractor agrees to coordinate with all other trades who will be working in and around this Subcontractor’s scope of work on a daily basis. This
coordination will include clean up, material relocation, work sequencing, et cetera as required in order to avoid hindering another Subcontractor from
completing their scope of work. A move-in is defined as utilizing labor AND heavy equipment on site. Should equipment be removed from the site and is
needed back on site for added work (which is not due to any fault or oversight of this Subcontractor), it will be defined as another move-in. If equipment is not
utilized and labor only is utilized, it will not be defined as a move-in. Heavy equipment is defined as requiring a trailer for transit.
45. Subcontractor shall ensure that its scope of work does not impede the basic operation and function of the existing property during the course of construction.
Any required utility shut downs will be coordinated with and approved by General Contractor a minimum of two weeks prior to work.
46. Subcontractor shall perform all layout and shall be responsible for all field measurements for custom fabrications. General Contractor shall be responsible for
providing major grid line intersections only.
47. Subcontractor shall have fire extinguishers in place at the immediate work area as required by authorities having jurisdiction. All extinguishers on site shall
have up to date inspection records and certification documents.
48. Subcontractor shall have a First Aid kit on the premises and stocked such that it meets OSHA requirements.
49. Subcontractor is responsible for all penetrations associated with their work. This includes patching/sealing penetrations as required by project conditions and
specifications.
50. Subcontractor is to comply with all local, city, county, state, and federal ordinances, statutes and requirements. No work is to be deemed completed until final
inspection and approval by the appropriate public agencies, as well as acceptance by General Contractor and Owner. Such acceptance and/or inspector
approvals and/or payment by General Contractor shall not bar any claim against Subcontractor for defects in workmanship or materials or deviations from the
requirements of the Subcontract Documents or from said rules, regulations, and requirements. No indications in the plans and specifications shall be construed
to permit work or materials not conforming to these codes.
51. All work is subject to inspection by relevant government inspectors (i.e. local, state and/or federal, as applicable to a specific item of work) and by General
Contractor and the Owner and his appointed consultants. The Subcontractor will be responsible for any costs associated with remediation of unacceptable
work and/or materials, and any associated re-inspection and re-observation costs. In no event will a correction notice issued by a government inspector
substantiate a change order request by this Subcontractor to the Owner or General Contractor. It is understood that this Subcontractor is an expert in this field
of work and will not proceed with installation of any work which is not in conformance with building code unless specifically directed in writing to do so by
the General Contractor, Owner or Architect. In the event that a correction notice is issued in which the Subcontractor does not agree, Subcontractor will be
solely responsible for correction and/or contesting the correction notice. If directed by General Contractor, Subcontractor will immediately proceed with
correction at no cost to the General Contractor or Owner. The General Contractor will have sole discretion as to the effect of the correction notice on the
project schedule.
52. Subcontract amount includes, and Subcontractor shall pay, all taxes, licensing, OSHA permits, and other incidental permits related to Subcontractor's work.
Subcontractor shall obtain all required business licenses and provide copies to General Contractor prior to start of work. Include all local, county, state and
federal sales taxes, freight and delivery fees.
PMSC07_110 Page 4 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017