MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
53. Subcontractor shall verify that all surfaces and conditions are ready for construction. Subcontractor shall immediately notify General Contractor's Project
Superintendent, in writing, of any conditions which will adversely affect his work. Moreover, Subcontractor agrees that once the Work has begun this shall
constitute acceptance of all existing conditions.
54. Subcontractor shall effectively secure and protect his work and assume full responsibility for its condition until final written acceptance by Architect, Owner,
and General Contractor.
55. Subcontractor shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws, regulations, ordinances, building codes, and other rules applicable to Subcontractor's
performance of the Work. Subcontractor and its sureties shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless Contractor from and against any damages, penalties, or
costs of any nature arising out of Subcontractor's failure to comply with such laws, or failure of Subcontractor's employees, agents, representatives, sub-
subcontractors or suppliers to so comply.
ARTICLE V - CHANGES IN THE WORK
1. Under no conditions shall Subcontractor make any changes, either as additions or deletions, without written order or direction from the General Contractor.
General Contractor shall not pay any extra charges requested by the Subcontractor that have not been agreed upon in writing by the General Contractor. If the
Subcontractor initiates an unauthorized substitution, deviation or change in the work that affects the work or expense of other trades, Subcontractor shall be
liable for the associated expenses.
2. In the event that a potential change or extra work is recognized, General Contractor will request the Subcontractor to submit a proposal, which Subcontractor
shall provide within five (5) days of the General Contractor's request, unless extended by mutual written agreement. Subcontractor shall not proceed with a
change or extra work unless it first has a specific Potential Change Item (PCI) control number issued by the General Contractor. Without this specific PCI
control number any change or extra work will NOT be compensated, regardless of merit. The proposal must reference this specific PCI control number in
order to be reviewed. The proposal shall include a breakdown which includes quantities of various materials, hours of labor required with respect to each class
of work, items subcontracted, and individual line items for overhead and profit. Deductions in work scope to be priced similarly to additions. Lump sum
pricing for changes or extra work without a breakdown will NOT be accepted. Failure to provide pricing within the required timeframe will be the
Subcontractor's agreement of no additional cost or time for the change or extra work. If the proposed change or extra work has any time impact in the opinion
of the Subcontractor, the Subcontractor shall include a time extension request with substantiation in the Subcontractor's proposal, or it will be conclusively
agreed that there are no such schedule-related impacts.
3. In the event the Subcontractor performs authorized work as directed by General Contractor on a time and materials (T&M) basis, Subcontractor shall furnish
to the General Contractor on a daily basis all timesheets, material tickets, and listing of any other items for which compensation is requested for General
Contractor's review and approval. All items must be listed on the document at the time of General Contractor's signature. Signed T&M documents do not
constitute an approved change order. They are only verification of the work. Copies of these signed documents must be included as back-up for the change
order request, which must be submitted no later than five (5) days after the conclusion of the T&M work. Any costs not submitted for approval pursuant to
these requirements will not be compensated.
4. In the event General Contractor and Subcontractor cannot agree on whether or not the work is changed or extra work, or on the value of or time impact as a
result of changed or extra work, or if Subcontractor is directed to proceed with changed or extra work prior to issuance of a change order, Subcontractor shall
proceed with and timely prosecute the work as directed by General Contractor. Upon receipt of this direction, the Subcontractor shall diligently perform the
work without disruption or delay. Disputes will be resolved pursuant to this Agreement.
5. Unless otherwise provided in the Prime Contract, the Subcontractor's mark-up for overhead and profit on changed or extra work performed shall not exceed
those indicated in the Work Order. Labor rates used must be justified, including a detailed breakdown of burden, benefits, insurance, and payroll taxes.
Subcontractor agrees to give General Contractor access to his certified payroll records to confirm actual pay rates.
6. By executing a Change Order, Subcontractor agrees that the compensation in both time and amount is in full, and is inclusive of any inefficiency, delays,
extended overhead, lost productivity, or any other direct or indirect impacts. Failure to promptly return (no later than 14 days from the date of issuance) the
executed Subcontract Change Order may result in withholding of progress payments for the changed work, at the General Contractor's sole discretion.
7. In the event that General Contractor directs Subcontractor to work overtime at the General Contractor's expense, Subcontractor agrees to perform such work
and shall be reimbursed only for the difference between regular time and overtime rates and the related payroll taxes, insurance, and benefits. Subcontractor
shall not be compensated for inefficiencies or declines in productivity. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate General Contractor to pay for any
overtime work if it has not been approved in writing, or for any overtime work caused by the failure of Subcontractor to provide sufficient manpower or
otherwise maintain the progress of the work.
8. In the event of any dispute, controversy, or claim for additional compensation or time extension, Subcontractor shall provide the General Contractor with
written notice no later than five (5) days from the occurrence of the event on which the claim is made. Such notice shall include but not be limited to a
statement of the extent of the time extension and additional compensation requested along with detailed support. Such notice shall describe the claim in detail
so as to allow General Contractor to fully evaluate its merits. Any claim not presented within stated time period shall be considered waived by Subcontractor.
9. In the event that a change is made or extra work is required by the Owner or its agents, and the resulting Subcontractor's change request meets the merit and
timeliness requirement set forth in the Prime Contract, the General Contractor will present it to the Owner. The decision of the Owner shall be final and
binding upon the Subcontractor to the same extent that it is final and binding on the General Contractor.
10. No claims for additional compensation or damages for delays, whether caused in whole or in part by any conduct on the part of General Contractor, including,
but not limited to, conduct amounting to a breach of the Subcontract, or delays by other subcontractors or Owner, shall be recoverable from General
Contractor, and the extension of time for completion of Subcontractor's work shall be the sole remedy available to Subcontractor; provided, however, that in
the event General Contractor obtains additional compensation from Owner on account of delays for which Subcontractor has made a claim in compliance with
the requirements of the Subcontract, Subcontractor shall be entitled to such portion of the additional compensation so received by General Contractor from
Owner as is equitable under the circumstances. In the event that General Contractor prosecutes a claim against Owner for additional compensation for any
delay which includes a pass-through delay claim by Subcontractor, Subcontractor shall cooperate fully with General Contractor in the prosecution thereof and
shall pay costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith. Nothing herein shall require the General Contractor to pursue a pass-through delay claim by
Subcontractor, which determination shall be made in General Contractor's sole discretion.
11. Subcontractor cannot submit a payment request for changed or extra work until a Change Order for the work has been executed by the General Contractor and
Subcontractor.
PMSC07_110 Page 5 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017