MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
4. The Subcontractor's monthly billings are to be submitted at least five (5) days prior to the date the General Contractor is scheduled to review the project
Payment Application with the Owner. Subcontractor Change Orders (SCOs) are not allowed to be billed unless they are properly executed and returned. The
Subcontractor's monthly billing must contain the following components.
a) Invoice in a format approved by the General Contractor, and conforming to previously approved Schedule of Values.
b) Subcontractor's Affidavit listing all 2nd tier Subcontractors and major vendors/suppliers associated with the billing.
c) Conditional Waiver of Lien associated with current invoice, including those of 2nd tier Subcontractors and major vendors/suppliers.
d) Updated Material Procurement Log.
e) Unconditional Waiver of Lien from previous month's payment, including those of 2nd tier Subcontractors and major suppliers (unless previously
submitted).
f) Union Subcontractors shall submit monthly verification of current trust fund payment.
g) If required, certified payroll records of all Subcontractor's workers for the project.
h) Monthly Subcontractor Safety Compliance Statement.
5. Progress payments and/or final payment may be withheld from Subcontractor by General Contractor and/or Subcontractor may be backcharged to the extent
that:
a) Subcontractor is indebted to General Contractor pursuant to this Subcontract or any other agreement between Subcontractor and General
Contractor or its affiliates or subsidiaries, whether or not such other agreement is related to the Subcontract or another project.
b) Defective subcontract work has not been remedied.
c) Subcontractor has failed to pay, or provide satisfactory evidence of payment to, sub-subcontractors, suppliers, employees, laborers, union trust
funds and taxing authorities, or any claim or lien by any third party has been asserted or threatened with respect to the subcontract work.
d) General Contractor has a reasonable basis to believe that the subcontract work cannot be completed for the unpaid portion of the Subcontract Sum
or in accordance with the Project Schedule.
e) General Contractor, Owner or another subcontractor or supplier have been injured or damaged by Subcontractor's performance or failure to
perform the subcontract work.
f) Subcontractor fails to submit waivers of lien rights and/or releases of claims as required in this Subcontract or fails to provide certified payroll data
when requested by General Contractor.
g) In the event of a proposed change order deleting a portion of the subcontract work, General Contractor shall have the right to withhold from its
periodic progress payments to Subcontractor an amount which General Contractor, in its reasonable judgment, determines to be the value of such
work. Said amount may be held by General Contractor until the value of such work is determined by agreement or by the dispute resolution
procedures provided herein.
h) The Subcontractor is otherwise in material breach or default of this Subcontract.
Monies withheld or retained by General Contractor from Subcontractor as provided in this Article shall not accrue interest.
6. Furthermore, Subcontractor must be in compliance with his other obligations, including, but not limited to, submission of Daily Reports, Maintenance of As-
Builts, and conformance to Safety Program or General Contractor has the right to withhold payment until Subcontractor can demonstrate such compliance.
7. General Contractor, at his sole discretion, has the right to issue Subcontractor joint checks for his 2nd tier Subcontractors and major vendors/suppliers.
8. No payments shall be made for materials stored on site except to the extent allowed by the Prime Contract and payment is received for same by General
Contractor. Materials for the work stored on site shall be properly protected and secured by the Subcontractor and in a location approved by the General
Contractor. Materials stored in unauthorized locations shall be relocated at the General Contractor's direction and at the Subcontractor's expense.
9. Final payment, including retention release shall be governed by the terms of the Prime Contract. However, under no circumstances shall final payment be
made prior to Subcontractor completing all applicable Subcontract requirements including completion of punchlist, submission of as-builts, O&M manuals
and warrantees, furnishing of spare parts, keys, attic stock, and the completion of training.
10. No payment under this Agreement shall be evidence of the performance of Work, either wholly or in part, and no payment shall be construed to be an
acceptance of defective work or improper materials.
11. In the event any person or party furnishing labor or materials to Subcontractor files a mechanic's lien or stop notice, Subcontractor is obligated to promptly
take all necessary steps to have such mechanic's lien or stop notice withdrawn, including the posting of a release bond. In the event that the Subcontractor
fails to have the mechanic's lien or stop notice removed or bonded over within five (5) days, the General Contractor may take all necessary actions which it
deems reasonable or necessary to cause the mechanic's lien or stop notice to be released. All costs associated with the General Contractor's actions, including
the cost of any bond and any legal costs or attorney's fees, shall be deducted from amounts payable to Subcontractor. Subcontractor shall remain liable in the
event that monies payable to it are insufficient to pay any expenses or damages arising from such mechanic's liens or stop notices.
12. The Subcontractor's full and faithful performance of all obligations under this Agreement is a condition precedent to Subcontractor's right to receive payment
for the work performed.
13. The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that the above procedures are the minimum conditions which shall be met prior to any payment, partial or final,
becoming due. In addition, the Subcontractor agrees that if the Prime Contract requires additional procedures supplementing the minimum procedures above,
the Subcontractor shall also comply with such supplemental procedures and these also are a condition precedent to General Contractor's obligation to issue
payment to the Subcontractor, and no payment shall become due unless and until such conditions are satisfied.
PMSC07_110 Page 13 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017