MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
6. In the event that the General Contractor elects to establish a reserved gate system, Subcontractor shall immediately comply and notify its labor, suppliers, and
Sub-Subcontractors in writing the same business day as to what gate or entrances have been established for their use by the General Contractor. Subcontractor
is responsible to maintain strict compliance with the General Contractor's gate usage procedures for his labor, suppliers, and Sub-Subcontractors. Failure to
comply is a default of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XII - SAFETY
1. The Subcontractor, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable precautions to protect persons and property, at or adjacent to the project, from damage, loss or
injury resulting from the Subcontractor, his employees, his Sub-Subcontractors, or other agents' performance of the Work.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply fully with all Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and standards relating with occupational health and safety, handling
and storage of hazardous materials, accident prevention, safety equipment, and safe practices including the accident prevention and safety program of General
Contractor and Owner for the project. However, the establishment of a safety program by the General Contractor shall not relieve the Subcontractor of its
safety responsibilities and liabilities.
3. Subcontractor accepts sole responsibility for providing a safe place to work for its employees and the employees of its Sub-Subcontractors and other agents.
Subcontractor to immediately notify General Contractor of any unsafe condition it discovers or observes that is beyond Subcontractor's scope to address.
4. Subcontractor shall have his own written safety program hereon to be referred to as an Injury and Illness Prevention Program (IIPP), Heat Illness Prevention
Program (HIPP), Job Hazard Analysis (JHA), Hazard Communication (HazCom), Code of Safe Practice (COSP) and Emergency Action Plan (EAP), copies of
which must be kept on the jobsite at all times while Subcontractor is present. In addition, a separate copy is to be submitted to the General Contractor at least
ten (10) days prior to start of Subcontractor's work.
5. Subcontractor shall furnish General Contractor with all Safety Data Sheets (SDS) during the submittal process and shall be responsible for storing and
utilizing the materials as stated on SDS. All SDS must be on file at the jobsite prior to the start of any work.
6. Subcontractor shall appoint a full-time experienced safety person to address safety issues on the project. Subcontractor agrees that this person has all of the
required training and authority needed to act in this capacity. Subcontractor shall submit a site specific safety plan ten (10) days before any work or new
sequence of work commences. The Subcontractor shall conduct inspections of the project to determine that safe working conditions and equipment exist and
shall keep written documentation of those inspections on file.
7. Subcontractor shall ensure that all workers participate in General Contractor’s site specific safety orientation program prior to each worker performing work
onsite. Failure to do so may result in that worker being removed from the project site.
8. Subcontractor shall hold weekly safety meetings at the jobsite with its employees and keep written documentation of these meetings, including participant's
signatures, on file and submit them weekly to the General Contractor. In addition, Subcontractor is to conduct and document weekly inspections of their work
areas. These documents are to be maintained by the Subcontractor and made available to the General Contractor upon request. This includes daily equipment
inspections. Subcontractor's supervisor must attend General Contractor's safety meetings.
9. Should Subcontractor create a safety hazard, Subcontractor is to install protective measures to protect against injury to all workers on-site arising from
Subcontractor's work and maintain them at all times while Subcontractor is on-site. Should Subcontractor remove any such protection, Subcontractor shall
promptly reinstall such protection in a proper condition prior to leaving the work area. Construction safety protection includes, but is not limited to, handrails,
guard rails, floor opening protection, barricades, signage, et cetera.
10. Should there be an incident, injury, property damages or theft at the project involving either the Subcontractor's labor or its agents, Subcontractor shall
immediately report the incident to the General Contractor and cooperate with the General Contractor's accident investigation. Furthermore, the Subcontractor
shall provide a written report of the incident within 24 hours of occurrence.
11. General Contractor has the right (not the obligation) to discipline Subcontractor's supervision and workers when not compliant with safety rules, including
removal of individuals from the project for repeated or willful violations.
12. For any month in which Subcontractor is submitting a billing for work performed he must concurrently submit a Monthly Subcontractor Safety Compliance
Statement required by General Contractor. Proper completion and submittal of a Monthly Subcontractor Safety Compliance Statement shall be a condition
precedent to General Contractor's obligation to pay Subcontractor.
13. Subcontractor's failure to perform adequate clean-up and housekeeping and thereby creating an unsafe work environment will be subject to disciplinary action
under the safety program.
ARTICLE XIII - CLEAN-UP
1. Subcontractor is responsible for the clean-up and legal removal of debris, waste, and rubbish generated by his employees and work operations on a daily basis,
or as directed by the General Contractor. Materials to be removed from the building and placed in dumpsters furnished by the General Contractor; however,
Subcontractor shall be responsible for dumpster costs for waste and debris associated with the removal of any non-conforming work. All material placed in
dumpsters shall be broken down and compacted such that the maximum loading capacity of dumpsters is utilized. All materials placed in the General
Contractor's dumpster by Subcontractor employees or Subcontractors' sub-tier vendors must be non-hazardous materials. Subcontractor warrants that each of
his employees or sub-tier vendors is properly trained to identify and segregate all hazardous and non- hazardous waste materials. Subcontractor shall remove
from the site all hazardous and universal waste that he has furnished or responsible for and legally dispose of such materials. The cost for this disposal is
included in the Subcontract amount. Subcontractor shall maintain written documentation of the hazardous and/or universal waste disposal which the General
Contractor may request at any time.
2. Upon completion of his work or when directed by General Contractor, Subcontractor shall remove from the project all universal waste, hazardous materials,
temporary structures, debris, waste, and excess materials associated with his work operation and clean all surfaces, fixtures, and equipment relative to the
performance of its work.
3. Should the Subcontractor fail to perform his clean-up function in accordance with this Subcontract then the General Contractor shall give Subcontractor
written Notice of the deficiency and allow the Subcontractor 48 hours to perform the clean-up. If upon the expiration of the 48 hour period Subcontractor has
not satisfactorily performed the clean-up, then General Contractor, without further notice, may perform, or have arranged to be performed, the clean-up, the
cost of which shall be charged to the Subcontractor and deducted from the monies otherwise due under this Subcontract. Should the General Contractor's
clean-up operation involve multiple Subcontractors, General Contractor shall divide the clean-up costs, inclusive of supervision, overhead, and profit, among
the offending parties based on General Contractor’s sole assessment of the degree of non-compliance. Waste which cannot be identified as being attributable
to a specific trade (food wrappings, beverage containers, newspaper, general packing materials, et cetera) shall be divided based upon manpower.
PMSC07_110 Page 11 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017