MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
and accept that other Subcontractors and/or contractors will be working in close proximity and (h) in the event Subcontractor fails to maintain its part of the
General Contractor's schedule, it shall, without additional compensation, accelerate the work as General Contractor may direct until the Subcontractor's Work
is compliant with such schedule.
3. General Contractor shall have complete control of the premises on which the work is to be performed and shall have the right to decide the time and order in
which various portions of the work shall be installed and the relative priority of the Subcontract Work with the work of other Subcontractors, and, in general,
all other matters pertaining to the timely and orderly conduct of the work of all Subcontractors on the Project jobsite.
4. Subcontractor shall participate in weekly and other periodic jobsite meetings that involve scheduling, review of upcoming work activities and sequences, and
comply with progress and look-ahead schedules prepared by the General Contractor. The look-ahead schedule will become binding on the Subcontractor,
once issued by the General Contractor.
5. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for making all submittals (in the required quantity), gaining all approvals, reviewing all existing conditions, and
procuring all equipment and materials as required to start his work at the time indicated on the current schedule or otherwise required by the General
Contractor and/or pursuant to the Prime Contract, whichever is more stringent. Failure to provide any submittals within the required timeframe may result in
withholding of payment until the submittals are complete in the sole judgment of the General Contractor. Prior to his mobilization, the Subcontractor is
responsible to keep himself informed of the progress of the work at all times, including those activities which may affect him, or which he may affect. The
General Contractor has the right to contact Subcontractor's suppliers or vendors and visit the office, shops, and yards of the Subcontractor and his suppliers
and vendors in order to verify compliance with the schedule.
6. In the event of any dispute under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, scope of work, timing, schedule, payment or sequence of work, Subcontractor
shall diligently perform the work as directed by the General Contractor without interruption, disruption or delay. Subcontractor's compliance with General
Contractor's direction will not prejudice the final resolution of dispute. Failure of the Subcontractor to comply with the requirements of this Article shall
subject the Subcontractor to the assessment of actual damages and/or liquidated damages, as applicable. These damages for delay, if provided for in the Prime
Contract or elsewhere in the Subcontract Documents, shall be assessed against Subcontractor to the extent caused by, or attributed to Subcontractor,
Subcontractor's employees and agents, Sub-Subcontractors, suppliers or any person or entity for whose act Subcontractor may be liable. In addition to
responsibility for actual and/or liquidated damages assessed by the Owner under the Prime Contract, Subcontractor will also be responsible for actual damages
for delay incurred by the General Contractor, or by other Subcontractors or parties affected by the delay caused by Subcontractor.
7. An extension of time may be granted pursuant to Article V if Subcontractor is obstructed or delayed in the commencement, construction, or completion of his
work by conditions beyond his reasonable control and not contemplated by this Agreement. Subcontractor is obligated to inform the General Contractor in
writing within two (2) days of the existence of such a condition so that the Owner can be similarly advised. A time extension will not be granted when
Subcontractor could have anticipated or avoided the delay by the exercise of reasonable diligence and judgment.
8. No delay, suspension, or obstruction, even if caused by the General Contractor, shall serve to terminate this Agreement or increase the Subcontract Sum,
except as specifically provided in the Subcontract Documents.
ARTICLE IV - SUBCONTRACTOR'S OBLIGATIONS
1. The Subcontractor shall perform the work in accordance with and subject to all of the provisions of the Prime Contract to the full extent that each such
provision is applicable to Subcontractor's work. For every Subcontractor's scope of work, any reference in the Contract Documents to "Contractor" or "General
Contractor" shall be interpreted to mean "Subcontractor". Subcontractor expressly agrees that if the Prime Contract requires the performance of any act or
thing by, or imposes any obligation on the General Contractor in connection with the performance or completion of any part of the work, the Subcontractor
hereby also assumes such obligations and the Subcontractor shall perform the same to the full extent that the Prime Contract requires of the General
Contractor. The General Contractor shall have the same right and remedies against the Subcontractor with respect to such obligations as the Owner has against
the General Contractor with the same force and effect as if every such obligation, right or remedy were set forth in full herein.
2. If there is any inconsistency in the drawings, or between the drawings and the specifications, or any other contract document, unless otherwise ordered in
writing by the Owner or General Contractor, the more stringent requirement shall govern, as determined by General Contractor in his sole discretion.
3. It is the intent of this Agreement that should there be any misplacement, addition or omission of a word or character on the Contract Documents, conflict
between the plans and specifications, or item not in compliance with code, it shall be the Subcontractor's responsibility to bring same to the General
Contractor's attention in writing. If the Subcontractor proceeds with the work, it will be considered evidence of his acceptance of the existing condition and/or
substrate as being correct and to his approval.
4. Subcontractor affirms that it has read the Prime Contract associated with the Work Order and acknowledges that it has visited the site and is aware of existing
building, site, and surrounding neighborhood conditions, and has researched local rules and regulations involving allowable project work days and hours,
street parking, inspection procedures, and any other conditions that could affect the project. Furthermore, Subcontractor accepts these conditions and they are
included in the Subcontract Sum.
5. Subcontractor will be issued an electronic set of drawings and specifications with Subcontract award. The same will apply to any documents related to
Change Orders.
6. Subcontractor shall not be relieved of responsibility for any deviation from the requirements of the Contract Documents by the General Contractor's or the
Architect's review/approval of shop drawings, product data, or samples unless the Subcontractor has specifically stated in writing of such deviation at the time
of submission and express approval has been given to the noted deviation or substitution. Furthermore, this "review/approval" does not relieve the
Subcontractor of responsibility for accuracy of submittals/drawings, proper material selection, completeness of work or coordination with other work.
7. All shipping and delivery costs are included and Subcontractor shall provide a minimum 48-hour advance notice to the General Contractor for all deliveries.
Subcontractor is responsible for providing the equipment and labor necessary to unload, store, and distribute its material, inclusive of any F.O.B. items.
Subcontractor shall provide flagmen and traffic control as it relates to its work. Materials to be staged in areas designated by General Contractor. If items are
furnished F.O.B., all shall be marked to correspond with a detailed placement document to facilitate identification and installation by others.
8. Subcontractor is responsible for the storage and security of his work from theft and damage until all of Subcontractor's work is accepted in writing. General
Contractor will not provide security.
9. Subcontractor shall provide all hoisting, rigging, and scaffolding associated with his work.
10. Subcontractor shall obtain written approval from the General Contractor for any space required for storage and/or lay down areas. Subcontractor shall submit a
diagram of any space requested for storage and lay down during the course of the Subcontractor's work.
11. Subcontractor shall provide any of his special electrical power needs and connections. General Contractor to provide a temporary power distribution system
PMSC07_110 Page 2 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017