MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
ARTICLE VI - BONDING OF SUBCONTRACTOR
1. If required by the General Contractor, the Subcontractor shall execute a Labor and Material Payment Bond and a Performance Bond each in the amount of
100% of the Subcontract Sum. The Performance Bond shall provide in substance that the Surety guarantees the timely performance of all of Subcontractor's
obligations under this Agreement. If the bonds are not required by the Work Order, the General Contractor shall reimburse the Subcontractor for the actual
cost of the bonds, with no mark-up applied for overhead and profit. Subcontractor shall provide the actual invoice from Surety prior to reimbursement.
Subcontractor is responsible for any additional costs should the actual bond costs be greater than the rate initially quoted by the Subcontractor. Said bonds
shall be executed by a corporate surety acceptable to the General Contractor, licensed to do business in the State where the work is located, and shall be in a
form acceptable to the General Contractor. General Contractor shall supply Subcontractor with bond forms if bond is requested. Surety shall contain an "A VI"
rating as determined by Best's Key Rating Guide and be listed by the Federal Register, Department of the Treasury. Bonds shall be furnished within ten (10)
days of General Contractor's request. Failure to furnish compliant bonds within this time frame will be considered a condition of default and allow General
Contractor, at his sole discretion, to terminate this Agreement without penalty.
ARTICLE VII - INSURANCE
1. Prior to the commencement of the Work, Subcontractor shall, at its sole cost secure/procure and maintain insurance with coverages and in amounts not less
than the greater of those required by the Subcontract Documents, Prime Contract, governing law or as specified herein. Subcontractor shall require that its
Sub-Subcontractors and consultants provide the same insurance and coverages required under this Article. The failure of the Subcontractor or its Sub-
Subcontractors or consultants to provide the insurance provided herein shall be a default under this Subcontract Agreement. Absent greater specific insurance
requirements given in the Work Order, the following coverages shall be met.
A. Worker's Compensation - In the state or states which the work is to be performed, and including Employer's Liability insurance with limits not less
than the following:
Bodily Injury by Accident $1,000,000 each accident
Bodily Injury by Disease $1,000,000 each employee
Bodily Injury by Disease $1,000,000 policy limit
If applicable such policy must provide United States Longshore and Harbor Workers, Maritime, and any other coverage required by applicable
jurisdiction.
B. Commercial General Liability - For bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage on an occurrence form (ISO Form CG 0001 or equivalent)
and shall include, but not limited to, coverage for premises-operations, elevators, independent contractors, broad form property damage, XCU
hazards (explosion, collapse and underground), contractual liability, riggers liability when applicable, and products and completed operations with
limits not less than the following:
Each Occurrence $1,000,000
General Aggregate per Project $2,000,000
Products-Completed Operations Aggregate $2,000,000
Such policy must contain Severability of Interest/Separation of Insureds clause. The products and completed operations coverage (including ISO
Endorsement CG 2037 or equivalent) must be maintained for a period of Ten years after final acceptance of the Project or such longer time as is
required in the documents or Prime Contract. The policy may not include any limitations regarding residential or habitational projects, or any other
exclusionary endorsements to the standard ISO policy referenced above.
C. Automobile Liability - For bodily injury and property damage arising from the ownership, maintenance, or use of owned, hired, and non-owned
vehicles, including - contractual liability coverage, with a limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident.
D. Umbrella/Excess Liability - Such policy shall be follow form excess coverage over commercial General Liability, Automobile Liability, and
Employer's Liability providing equivalent coverage terms and conditions, and with limits not less than the following amounts:
i) For Earth Retention (shoring), Concrete, Masonry, Steel, Windows/Curtainwall, Exterior Wall Systems (building envelope), Roofing,
Conveying Systems (elevator and escalator), Plumbing, Fire Protection, HVAC, Electrical
- $5,000,000 each Occurrence, General Aggregate per Project and Products-Completed Operations Aggregate
ii) All other Subcontractors
- $3,000,000 each Occurrence, General Aggregate per project and Products-Completed Operations Aggregate
E. Property/Contractor's Equipment - For damage or loss to owned, leased or rented property, machinery, materials, equipment and tools (''Property'')
under Subcontractor's care, custody or control, covered on an all-risk replacement cost basis including debris removal. Such coverage shall apply
to Property while on site, in transit, and in offsite storage. Insurance shall provide for full repair and replacement cost on an ''all risk'' basis. The
deductible on Subcontractors policy shall not exceed $5,000.
PMSC07_110 Page 6 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017