MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT
ARTICLE X - DISPUTE RESOLUTION
1. If a dispute arises out of or relates to this Agreement or its alleged breach, the parties shall, as a condition precedent to mediation, arbitration or litigation,
endeavor to settle the dispute first through direct discussions between executives for General Contractor and Subcontractor at a formal meeting held at the
project site or General Contractor's main office. If the dispute cannot be settled within twenty (20) calendar days of this meeting, then the parties shall, as a
condition precedent to arbitration or litigation, endeavor to settle the dispute by mediation.
2. Mediation shall occur under the Mediation Rules and Procedures of the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services ("JAMS"). The location of the mediation
shall be at the project site, General Contractor's main office, or such other location as the parties mutually agree. Once one party files a Request for Mediation
with the other and with the JAMS, the parties agree to conclude such mediation within sixty (60) calendar days of filing the request. The costs of the
mediation shall be paid equally by the parties. Either party may terminate the mediation at any time after the first session via a formal written request delivered
to the other party's representative and to the mediator.
3. If arbitration of disputes is provided for in the Prime Contract between Owner and General Contractor, and if General Contractor, in its sole discretion, elects
to demand arbitration with Subcontractor individually, or as part of joint proceedings with owner or others, any dispute arising between General Contractor
and Subcontractor under this Agreement, including breach thereof, shall be decided by arbitration in the manner provided for in the Contract Documents
between Owner and General Contractor.
4. If the Contract Documents between Owner and General Contractor do not provide for arbitration and if General Contractor, in its sole discretion, elects to
demand arbitration with Subcontractor individually, or as part of joint proceedings with owner or others, any dispute arising between General Contractor and
Subcontractor under this Agreement, including breach thereof, shall be decided by arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration Rules and Procedures of
Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services ("JAMS"), unless the parties mutually agree to other arbitration rules and procedures. The location of the
arbitration proceedings shall be at the office of JAMS nearest the project, unless the parties agree otherwise. The arbitrator(s) are empowered to determine the
arbitrability of any issue arising under this Agreement.
5. The surety or sureties for Subcontractor shall be parties to and shall be included in any arbitration under this Agreement upon written demand therefore by
General Contractor; provided, however, that the failure or refusal of said surety or sureties to participate in arbitration herein shall not be deemed to relieve
General Contractor or Subcontractor of their duties to arbitrate under this Agreement. Any arbitration under this Agreement may, at the option of General
Contractor, by consolidation, joinder or otherwise, include such other persons involved in or affected by the decision by such arbitration.
6. The award rendered by the arbitrator(s) shall be final, and judgment may be entered upon it in accordance with applicable law in any court having jurisdiction
thereof.
7. In the event of any dispute, the Subcontractor shall in no case cease to perform expeditiously the work called for under the Agreement or as directed by the
General Contractor to be performed. If any dispute or controversy arises in connection with any matter involving a direction, order, opinion or ruling of the
Owner or any of the Owner's representatives, then the Subcontractor and its surety shall be bound by said ruling, direction, opinion or order to the same extent
as the General Contractor may be bound.
8. In the event of arbitration or litigation, the prevailing party in the dispute shall be entitled to recover from the other party the costs of suit or arbitration,
together with reasonable attorney's fees and expert fees. The "prevailing party" is the party that recovers 75% or more of the relief sought by the party
claiming prevailing party status. The relief sought (whether by an affirmative claim or by defense to a claim) shall be determined by the arbitrator under all
the facts and circumstances. If neither party recovers 75% or more of the relief sought, then there is no prevailing party for purposes of this paragraph.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event Subcontractor is pursuing a claim against General Contractor which is a pass through claim to the Owner, then
Subcontractor's recovery of the costs of litigation or arbitration, attorney's fees and expert fees shall be limited to such costs and fees as are recovered by the
General Contractor against the Owner on the Subcontractor's behalf.
ARTICLE XI - LABOR
1. Subcontractor, at his own expense, shall comply with all current Federal, State, County, Municipal and Local laws that apply to hiring and employment of
labor, including, but not limited to, laws and orders of the Industrial Wage Commission governing payment of wages for overtime, rest and meal periods, and
similarly be responsible for compliance by his Sub-Subcontractors. Should this project be performed pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act, or any other law
dealing with prevailing wages, or with underpaid or unpaid wages of any kind. Subcontractor agrees to comply with all provisions and regulations of said
laws. Should affirmative action programs be applicable to this project, Subcontractor and its Sub-Subcontractors shall comply, including all documentation
associated with the program. Subcontractor shall defend, indemnify and hold General Contractor harmless from and against any liability, loss, claims, fines,
awards, expenses (including legal) and any associated interest, penalties or liquidated damages which may be incurred by General Contractor resulting from
Subcontractor's failure to comply with the above requirements. Within three days of becoming aware of same, Subcontractor shall give General Contractor
written notice of any alleged prevailing wage or other alleged wage or compensation violations asserted by any party against Subcontractor or its
subcontractors on any project on which Subcontractor has performed or is performing work for General Contractor.
2. Subcontractor shall keep a full-time competent, qualified, communicative supervisor at the job site during all times when Subcontractor's work is in progress,
and this supervisor shall be authorized to represent Subcontractor as to all elements of the work. Subcontractor shall notify the General Contractor in writing
prior to the start of his work with the name and qualifications of its proposed supervisor as well as prior to any planned change in supervisors. Subcontractor's
supervisor must attend all weekly safety and coordination meetings held by General Contractor as well as any special meetings that may be called.
3. Subcontractor shall enforce discipline and good order among its employees, suppliers, and Sub-Subcontractors engaged in the work. This includes
enforcement of project rules including, but not limited to, work hours, worker parking, respect for others work, clean-up, and safety. General Contractor may
require Subcontractor to remove from the project any such employees, suppliers, and Sub-Subcontractors that General Contractor may deem incorrigible,
incompetent, or a hindrance to progress of the work. Any replacement of a Subcontractor's employee is subject to prior approval from the General Contractor.
4. Subcontractor shall cooperate with the General Contractor and other Subcontractors whose work might conflict or interfere with their work and shall promptly
notify General Contractor in writing of such a condition as soon as it is recognized but not later than two (2) days. Subcontractor shall actively participate in
coordination meetings and drawing overlay process or 3D or Building Information Modeling (BIM) coordination in areas of congestion when required by the
General Contractor or the Subcontract.
5. Subcontractor shall perform its work with labor that is compatible with that of other trades performing work at the project site. In the event of any strike,
picketing, disruption, slowdown, or work stoppage affecting the project, which could delay the Subcontractor's work in any way, Subcontractor shall exercise
all due diligence to overcome it. Work stoppages (including sympathy strikes) or any other stoppage of work by employees performing work on, or delivering
materials to, the project shall not excuse any delay of Subcontractor in the proper performance of its work. This is regardless of whether the strike or other
stoppage of work is attributed to union action or the action of an individual employee.
PMSC07_110 Page 10 of 15 Rev. Aug 2017