MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

W.E. O'Neil Construction Co. of Arizona
4511 E.  Kerby Ave
Phoenix, AZ 85040
Phone:   480 921-8000  Fax:  480 921-8937

MSA No.

06-27625-00

This Master Subcontract Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into on October 30, 2023 by and between:

Blind Ideas

8960 W. Larkspur Dr, Suite 107
Peoria, AZ 85381

(the "Subcontractor") as an independent contractor, and W.E. O'NEIL CONSTRUCTION CO. OF ARIZONA (the "General Contractor").

Now, therefore, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Subcontractor and the General Contractor agree as follows:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

That  General  Contractor  and  Subcontractor  enter  into  this  Agreement  to  facilitate  future  projects  in  which  General  Contractor  may  choose  to  retain
Subcontractor.  The scope of work and other project specific terms and conditions shall be set forth in a work order ("Work Order") for each specific project.
The "Subcontract Work" or "Work" shall include all labor, equipment, materials and services to be performed by Subcontractor, and all other obligations of
Subcontractor required by the Subcontract Documents, as defined below.

That General Contractor may retain Subcontractor from time to time on various constructions projects, as determined by General Contractor in its sole
discretion pursuant to Work Orders to be executed in connection with each such project.

That this Agreement shall apply to all future Work to be provided by Subcontractor on any project pursuant to such Work Orders, provided that the terms of
this Agreement may be modified only by a subsequent written Work Order signed by both parties varying the terms of this Agreement and only as to the
particular Work Order.

That this Agreement shall be construed in its broadest terms, such that all provisions of this Agreement shall be given full effect to the extent possible in light
of the specific terms of any subsequent Work Order(s) and work order revisions.

That  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  shall  be  deemed  incorporated  by  reference  with  respect  to  any  future  construction  project  pursuant  to  which  General
Contractor may employ Subcontractor under a Work Order, and for which General Contractor has entered into, or will enter into, a Prime Contract as defined
in Paragraph 1.1.

That the terms of this Agreement shall be in effect upon the earlier of:  1) execution of a Work Order for a specific project or 2) commencement of Work on a
specific project site regardless of the status of a fully executed Work Order.

ARTICLE I - THE SUBCONTRACT DOCUMENTS

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

The Subcontract Documents shall consist of (1) this Agreement; (2) the "Prime Contract", consisting of the Prime Contract Documents as defined therein
which may include by way of example, a form of agreement between the Owner and General Contractor and other Contract Documents enumerated therein,
including, as applicable, the conditions of the Contract (General, Special, Supplementary and other conditions), drawings/plans, specifications and addenda
effective as of the execution of the Prime Contract, together with addenda or modifications issued subsequent to the execution of the Prime Contract, whether
in existence before or after the execution of this Agreement and; (3) the Work Order and any documents incorporated therein. All such documents collectively
comprise "the Subcontract".

Where  there  are  conflicts  in  the  Subcontract  Documents,  the  more  stringent  requirement  shall  govern,  in  General  Contractor's  sole  discretion.  General
Contractor  and Subcontractor shall be mutually bound by the terms of this Agreement and the Prime Contract to the extent that provisions  of the Prime
Contract apply to the Subcontract work. General Contractor shall have all rights, remedies and redress against Subcontractor that the Owner, under the Prime
Contract, has against the General Contractor.

The term "Subcontract Documents" and "Contract Documents" noted throughout this agreement shall have the same meaning.

Subcontractor acknowledges receipt of or access to all of the Contract Documents as described herein.

Unless stated otherwise in the Subcontract Documents, reference to the word "day" or "days" shall mean calendar days.

ARTICLE II - CONTRACT PRICE

1.

With respect to each project, General Contractor agrees to pay Subcontractor for the strict performance of the Work the sum as specified in the Work Order
("Subcontract Sum"). The Subcontract Sum is considered firm and is not subject to increase resulting from labor, equipment, material or other foreseen and
unforeseen cost escalations incurred by Subcontractor during the performance of the Work as specified in the Work Order. The Subcontract Sum includes all
applicable Federal, State, County, Municipal and Local taxes. The Subcontract Sum includes all required mobilizations necessary to complete the work. The
Subcontract Sum may change only by approved written change order in accordance with the provisions of the Subcontract.

ARTICLE III - TIME AND PROGRESS OF THE WORK

1.

2.

TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE for all parties, and it is understood that the General Contractor and the Owner will sustain monetary damages if the project is
delayed. The General Contractor has the right to adjust the Project Schedule as the work progresses. The Subcontractor shall supply sufficient equipment,
supervision, and manpower to perform his work in conformance with the Project Schedule, as adjusted.

Subcontractor shall at its own expense, cooperate with General Contractor in scheduling and performing the Subcontractor's work so as to avoid conflict,
delay in or interference with the remaining work of the Prime Contract work of the General Contractor, other Subcontractors, or the work of the Owner's own
forces or Owner's separate contractors. Subcontractor shall conform his work to the specific durations and overall Project Schedule as referenced within the
Work Order, including any required overtime and expediting costs to meet the Project Schedule. Subcontractor shall (a) provide General Contractor with
scheduling information and a proposed manloaded schedule for performance of the Subcontract work in a form acceptable to General Contractor within ten
(10) days from the date of an executed Work Order; these activities are to be broken down in a day-to-day format. (b) provide complete contact information
for all sub-tier vendors, suppliers, and Sub-Subcontractors to the General Contractor within ten (10) days from the  date of an executed Work Order, (c)
provide a material procurement log in a form acceptable to the General Contractor within ten (10) days from the date of an executed Work Order, and shall
submit this log monthly with pay application (d) conform to General Contractor's progress schedules and all revisions or changes made thereto, (e) prosecute
the Subcontract Work in a prompt and diligent manner in accordance with  General Contractor's progress schedules without delaying or hindering General
Contractor's work or the work of other contractors or Subcontractor, (f) coordinate the Subcontract Work with that of all other contractors, Subcontractors,
suppliers and/or materialmen of the General Contractor or Owner, in a manner that will facilitate the efficient completion of the entire work, (g) acknowledge

PMSC07_110

Page 1 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

