MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

suitable for small hand tools unless otherwise noted.

Subcontractor to provide for any lighting required to properly install his work. General Contractor to provide a temporary lighting system for corridors,
stairwells and paths of travel only.

Subcontractor to provide all required surveying and layout required to perform his work, including any field measurements necessary prior to fabrication.
General Contractor shall provide benchmarks, building corners, and control lines.

Subcontractor is responsible for the parking requirements associated with his employee's vehicles including, but not limited to, parking fees, shuttling, et
cetera.

Subcontractor is responsible for all HIPP requirements for their employees including, but not limited to, providing shade, drinking water, et cetera.

Utilizing an electronic media approved by General Contractor, Subcontractor shall maintain on site a set of as-built drawings that are continuously updated
with  both  horizontal  dimensions  and  elevations  of  all  concealed  work.  Subcontractor  shall  provide  proof  of  these  drawings  being  contemporaneously
maintained as a condition of monthly payment.

Subcontractor is responsible to update all field and office sets of Contract Documents upon receipt of any revised instructions.  This includes addenda, revised
drawings, RFI responses, bulletins, et cetera. Subcontractor shall update these sets electronically denoting the most current construction documents.

Subcontractor is responsible for obtaining all local and City licenses required to perform his work at the project location. Proof of licensing shall be a
condition precedent to General Contractor's obligation to pay Subcontractor.

Subcontractor is responsible for obtaining and paying for any special permits required for his work including, but not limited to, street closure, street use,
elevator, demolition, haul route, specific OSHA permits, deferred permits, as well as any plan check and permit fees associated with a design-build scope of
work such as Fire Protection, Fire Alarm, et cetera.  Owner to pay for the Building Permit, unless otherwise noted.

Subcontractor is responsible to perform due diligence in identifying existing utilities, structures, and other existing property improvements and protecting
them in the course of work. Failure to do so will make Subcontractor liable for all costs related to the repair or replacement.

Subcontractor is responsible for coordinating all necessary testing and inspections for his work directly with the inspection agency or local authority. This is
inclusive of initiating and scheduling the request, providing prior written notification of the request to a General Contractor representative, being present for
all inspections and testing, and obtaining written documentation of approval. Except as otherwise provided in the Prime Contract, Subcontractor shall pay for
the  cost  of  all  testing  and  inspections  related  to  Subcontractor's  work.  If  Subcontractor  fails  the  test  and/or  inspection,  Subcontractor  shall  pay  for  re-
inspection at his sole expense.

Subcontractor shall create and maintain Daily Reports which identify Subcontractor's manpower (by classification), hours of work, areas of work, equipment
on-site, deliveries received, inspections passed or failed, and detailed description of the specific work performed by the Subcontractor's forces. Daily Reports
shall  be  submitted  to  the  General  Contractor  no  later  than  the  following  day.  Failure  to  comply  is  an  event  of  default  under  this  Agreement.  Under  no
circumstance does a Subcontractor Daily Report constitute compliance with notice requirements of this Agreement.

Subcontractor represents and warrants that it is an expert in the particular line of work herein subcontracted and that it is competent to know whether the
materials and methods specified for this work are sufficient and suitable to achieve the results contemplated by the Contract Documents. As an expert in its
field of work, the Subcontractor has sole control over the means and methods by which the work is to be done, including all requirements for performing the
work safely.

Subcontractor shall perform all work in a good and substantial manner using new materials of the quality specified and the highest quality of workmanship.

Subcontractor shall not put up signs or advertisements on or around the project without the General Contractor's written consent.

Visitors and/or Vendors will not be allowed on site without first obtaining written approval of the General Contractor and signing a release provided by the
General Contractor.

Any and all documents provided by Subcontractor shall be in duplicate form; first form is a physical document and the second form is electronic format as
approved by the General Contractor.

Subcontractor shall not take direction from or correspond with the Owner, Architect, consultants or any other entity as they relate to the performance of this
work, unless previously approved in writing from the General Contractor or unless otherwise noted in this agreement.

Subcontractors must adhere to regulations and permits of Arizona Department of Environmental Quality, and the regulations provided in the Clean Water Act
via the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and as updated and amended.  Subcontractor understands that erosion control devices will be installed
onsite  by  General  Contractor  through  an  appointed  Subcontractor.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Subcontractor  to  remove  and  reinstall  daily  all  Best
Management Practices (BMPs) as required for the Subcontractor to complete their scope of work. All storm drains and other sources of run-off or run-on must
be re-established to protect the site and public during off hours.

Subcontractor shall train all of its employees, at his expense, as required by Federal, State, Local or any other governing agency.

General Contractor has a zero-tolerance policy regarding sexual harassment, or harassment of any sort. Subcontractor's Principals agree to notify all personnel
who will be on this project of this policy. Sexual harassment includes but is not limited to: verbal remarks, catcalling and/or whistling and includes visually
tracking any patron, staff member, visitor, vendor or other person(s) on and around premises. This policy extends internally to the jobsite and all its personnel.
In the event that a possible occurrence of sexual harassment occurs, the Subcontractor's personnel involved may be asked to leave the jobsite and the premises
immediately. The Subcontractor's Principals will be called upon for remedy.

Subcontractor shall provide full time dust control and street cleaning as needed for Subcontractor's work performed under this agreement.  Street cleaning
shall include the complete path of travel in/out of the site in addition to streets leading away from the site.  Dust control includes sufficiently wetting down the
site during and at the end of the work day to control fugitive dust pursuant to any Arizona state and local air regulations and requirements.

Subcontractor is solely responsible for providing all dust control for soil disturbed by Subcontractor. Subcontractor shall keep his area sufficiently dampened
to control dust caused by Subcontractor's activities, and at all times provide reasonable control of dust caused by wind. Subcontractor shall employ all dirt and
dust control measures required to meet all applicable codes, regulations, and governmental requirements, as amended or updated. Subcontractor will be solely
responsible for any fines levied against the project from any government entities or other agencies due to dust issues arising during Subcontractor's work.

Any construction activities producing noise, dust, fumes, et cetera that in any way could be considered a nuisance to the surrounding area shall be completed
on off hours.  Subcontractor has included off-hour, shift work, fans, "smoke eaters", equipment exhaust scrubbers as required for the purpose. 

PMSC07_110

Page 3 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

