MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

F.

G.

H.

I.

J.

K.

L.

M.

N.

Contractors Professional Liability - If Subcontractor performs design, engineering-based or other professional services as part of the Work, 
Subcontractor must secure/procure and maintain insurance for claims arising from such activities. If the services are provided by Subcontractor's 
Subcontractor or consultants, then Subcontractor's Subcontractor or consultants shall also provide the required professional liability coverage. In 
addition, Subcontractor's policy must include protective liability coverage excess and contingent to their Subcontractors or Consultants policy. If 
the insurance is written on a claims-made basis, the retroactive date shall be prior to the start of Subcontractor's work. Renewal policies during this
period shall maintain the same retroactive date. Such insurance shall provide coverage of not less than a $1,000,000 limit per claim.  Such policies 
shall not have coverage limits which decline for costs of defense.  Such insurance must be maintained for five years after final acceptance of the 
Project.

Watercraft/Aircraft Liability - If Subcontractor utilizes watercraft, aircraft, helicopters or drones as part of the Work, Subcontractor must procure 
and maintain insurance for claims arising from bodily injury and property damage, with limits not less than the following amounts:

          Watercraft
          Aircraft
          Helicopters
          Drones

$  5,000,000 per occurrence
$  5,000,000 per accident
$10,000,000 per accident
$  2,000,000 per accident

Environmental/Pollution Liability - If the Subcontractor performs any work dealing with abatement, hazardous materials, mold or mildew, or any 
environmentally-regulated work or other such environmentally regulated work, Subcontractor must secure/procure and maintain insurance for 
claims arising from such activities. If the services are provided by Subcontractor's Subcontractor, then the Subcontractor's Subcontractor shall also 
provide the required environmental liability coverage. If the insurance is written on a claims-made basis, the retroactive date shall be prior to the 
start of Subcontractor's Work. Renewal policies during this period shall maintain the same retroactive date. Such insurance shall provide not less 
than a $2,000,000 limit per occurrence and shall include coverage for bodily injury, property damage, clean-up costs and completed operations 
caused by a pollution incident. Pollution incidents include, but are not limited to, the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any solid, liquid, 
gaseous or thermal irritant or contaminant, including fungi, bacterial and viral matter. If the insurance is written on a claims-made basis, the 
retroactive date shall be prior to the start of Subcontractor's work. Renewal policies during this period shall maintain the same retroactive date. 
Such insurance must be maintained for five years after final acceptance of Project.

Additional Insureds - The required insurance policies, with the exception of the Worker's Compensation and Contractors Professional Liability, 
must name the General Contractor, Owner, and others required in the Subcontract Documents (including their directors, officers, employees, and 
agents) as additional insureds, arising out of work performed (including completed operations) under the Contract Documents. The Commercial 
General Liability policy shall specifically include ISO Additional Insured Endorsements CG 2010 and CG 2037 10-01 editions, or equivalent. 
Subcontractor's insurance, including the Umbrella/Excess Liability, shall be primary and non-contributory with any insurance maintained by such 
additional insureds.

Waiver of Subrogation - Subcontractor waives its right(s) of subrogation, and shall require its insurers to endorse the Workers Compensation, 
Commercial General Liability, Automobile Liability, Property/Contractor's Equipment, Environmental/Pollution Liability and Watercraft/Aircraft 
Liability insurance policies required under this Agreement to waive all rights of subrogation against the Additional Insureds and Indemnitees. For 
the Automobile Insurance, the Waiver of Subrogation shall apply to both liability and physical damage.

Other Requirements - The required insurance policies must be endorsed to require thirty (30) days of advance written notice to the General 
Contractor in the event of any cancellation or reduction in coverage. All insurers must possess an A.M. Best rating of A-VII or better and be 
authorized to do business in the state or states where the work is to be performed. Upon written request from General Contractor, Subcontractor 
must supply certified copies of the required insurance policies within ten (10) days. Deductibles or SIRs may not exceed $25,000 without the 
General Contractor's approval.

Certificates of Insurance and Policies - Prior to commencing work but no later than ten (10) days from the date of this Subcontract, Subcontractor 
must provide properly completed certificates of insurance on Accord forms which evidence the required insurance. The certificates must 
specifically list each of the required additional insureds and specify that a Waiver of Subrogation Endorsement applies to the required insurance 
policies. The certificates must be accompanied by all required endorsements. Subcontractor agrees to furnish General Contractor with the same 
evidence of insurance required from each Sub-Subcontractor employed by the Subcontractor. Subcontractor shall provide copies of the required 
insurance policies within 10 days of written request by General Contractor.

Subcontractor expressly agrees that the General Contractor is authorized to withhold payments to the Subcontractor until the General Contractor 
receives evidence of insurance as required herein.

Scope/Limits of Insurance– To the fullest extent permitted by law, the coverage provided to the Additional Insureds must be at least as broad as 
that provided to the named insureds under the policy. In the event that any required insurance policy states that coverage to an additional insured 
shall be no broader than that required by contract, the Subcontractor and General Contractor agree that nothing in this Agreement is intended to 
restrict or limit the breadth of coverage.  In the event the Subcontractor maintains higher insurance limits than set forth herein, such higher limits 
shall be deemed to be required by General Contractor.

O.

This Article shall survive the completion of the Work.

PMSC07_110

Page 7 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
