MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

ARTICLE VIII - INDEMNIFICATION

1

2.

3.

4.

5.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, Subcontractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Owner, General Contractor, and others required in the
Subcontract Documents, or any of their respective consultants, agents, officers, directors and employees or any of them from and against claims, damages,
losses  and  expenses,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  attorney's  fees,  arising  out  of,  relating  to  or  resulting  from  in  whole  or  in  part  the  performance  of  the
Subcontract work by Subcontractor, Subcontractor's Sub-Subcontractors of any tier, anyone directly or indirectly employed by them, or anyone for whose acts
they may be liable. This requirement applies regardless of whether or not such claim, damage, loss or expense is caused in part by a party to be defended and
indemnified hereunder. Such obligations shall not be construed to negate, abridge or otherwise reduce other rights or obligations of defense of indemnity that
would  otherwise  exist  as  to  a  party  or  person  described  in  this  Article.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  if  the  Prime  Contract  contains  a  broader  or  more
stringent defense or indemnity obligation than contained in this Article, then the more broad or stringent defense or indemnification requirement shall apply to
this  Agreement.  The  only  exception  to  the  Subcontractor's  duties  under  this  paragraph  is  to  the  extent  that  a  particular  claim  is  the  result  of  the  sole
negligence, willful misconduct or active negligence of an indemnitee. The indemnity set forth in this section shall not be limited by insurance requirements or
by any other provision of this Agreement.

With respect to Subcontractor's obligation to defend, Subcontractor shall defend General Contractor or other indemnitee to the maximum amount allowed by
law. Upon General Contractor's tender to Subcontractor of a claim or portion thereof that includes the information provided by the Claimant relating to the
claims  caused by Subcontractor's scope of work and a written statement regarding how the reasonable allocated share of fees and costs was determined,
Subcontractor shall elect to perform either of the following:

a)

b)

Defend the claim with counsel of its choice. If Subcontractor elects to defend under this subparagraph, Subcontractor shall provide written notice 
of the election to General Contractor within a reasonable time following receipt of General Contractor's written tender, and in no event later than 
30 days following that receipt. The defense by Subcontractor shall be a complete defense of General Contractor or other indemnitee of all claims or
portions thereof to the extent alleged to be caused by Subcontractor, including any vicarious liability claims against General Contractor resulting 
from the Subcontractor's scope of work, but not including claims resulting from the scope of work, actions or omissions of General Contractor or 
any other party. Any vicarious liability imposed upon General Contractor for claims caused by Subcontractor electing to defend under this 
paragraph shall be directly enforceable against Subcontractor by General Contractor, or claimant. All information, documentation, or evidence, if 
any, relating to Subcontractor's assertion that another party is responsible for the claim shall be provided by Subcontractor to General Contractor.

Pay, within 30 days of receipt of invoice from General Contractor a reasonable allocated share of the General Contractor's defense fees and costs 
on an ongoing basis during the pendency of the claim, subject to any amounts reallocated upon final resolution of the claim, either by settlement or
judgment. The General Contractor will allocate a share to itself to the extent a claim or claims are alleged to be caused by its work, actions, or 
omissions, and a share to each other party to the extent a claim or claims are alleged to be caused by the other party's work, actions, or omissions, 
regardless of whether General Contractor actually tenders the claim to any other party, and regardless of whether that other party is participating in 
the defense.

If a Subcontractor fails to timely and adequately perform its obligations under Subparagraph (a) above, General Contractor shall have the right to pursue a
claim against Subcontractor for any resulting compensatory damages, consequential damages, and reasonable attorney's fees. If Subcontractor fails to timely
perform  its  obligations  under  Subparagraph  (b)  above,  General  Contractor  shall  have  the  right  to  pursue  a  claim  against  Subcontractor  for  any  resulting
compensatory  damages,  interest,  on  defense  and  indemnity  costs,  from  the  date  incurred,  at  the  rate  set  forth  in  Arizona  Revised  Statute,  consequential
damages, and reasonable attorney's fees incurred to recover these amounts. If, upon request by Subcontractor, General Contractor does not reallocate defense
fees within 30 days following final resolution of the claim, Subcontractor shall have the right to pursue a claim against General Contractor for any resulting
compensatory damages with interest, from the date of final resolution of the claim, at the rate set forth in Arizona Revised Statute.

In the event any claim is made or threatened against any indemnitee as described in this Article, the General Contractor shall have the right to withhold from
any payment due or to become due to the Subcontractor an amount sufficient in General Contractor's sole discretion to protect the indemnitees from the claims
and expenses which are asserted. Alternatively, the General Contractor in its discretion may require the Subcontractor to furnish a surety bond guaranteeing
protection to the full extent of this defense and indemnity obligation, which bond shall be furnished by the Subcontractor within five (5) days after written
demand has been made.

The obligation of Subcontractor under this paragraph shall not extend to the liability of the Architect or other design consultants (except design consultants
engaged by or for Subcontractor) or their respective consultants, agents and employees or any of them arising out of their preparation or approval of maps,
drawings, opinions, reports, surveys, change orders, designs or specifications.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, Subcontractor shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Owner, General Contractor, General Contractor's sureties,
Architect, or other design consultant, or any of their respective consultants, agents and employees of any of them and against claims, damages, losses and
expense, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, arising out of or resulting from any mechanic's liens, stop notices, or payment bond claims filed by
Subcontractor, Subcontractor's subcontractors (of any tier), anyone directly or indirectly employed by them or Subcontractor's suppliers or vendors.

ARTICLE IX - DEFAULT, TERMINATION

1.

In the event that the Subcontractor fails to comply, or becomes incapable of complying, with the terms of this Agreement, it shall be considered a default by
Subcontractor of this Agreement.  Default events include, but are not limited, to the following:

 The Subcontractor,

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

f)

g)

Fails or refuses to pay any Sub-Subcontractor, supplier or worker when due.

Becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, files for reorganization, or makes an assignment for benefit of creditors or fails to demonstrate financial 
ability to timely complete the Subcontractor's work, in General Contractor's sole discretion.

Fails to prosecute the procurement of equipment and material in a time frame required to achieve the project schedule.

Installation of non-compliant or defective Work.

Abandons the work or furnishes manpower in a number insufficient to complete the Work within the scheduled time.

Fails to comply with safe practices, including the maintenance of a clean jobsite.

Fails to perform or comply with any term, condition, or provision of this Agreement.

PMSC07_110

Page 8 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

 
