MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

In the event of any default by Subcontractor, General Contractor shall give Subcontractor written Notice of the deficient condition and allow the Subcontractor
48 hours to cure said default, unless it involves life safety issues, in which case the cure must be accomplished immediately. If upon the expiration of the 48
hour  period  Subcontractor  has  not  cured  the  default  then  General  Contractor  may,  without  further  Notice,  and  at  its  sole  discretion,  take  any  or  all  of  the
following actions:

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

f)

g)

Make any payments to satisfy the Subcontractor's obligations, the cost (including associated overhead and fees) of which shall be deducted from 
the Subcontractor.

Extend the time frame for Subcontractor to cure the condition, providing the Subcontractor is earnestly engaged in rectifying the condition.

Perform, or have arranged to be performed, any of the Subcontractor's duties, the cost (including associated overhead and fees) of which shall be 
deducted from the Subcontractor.

Withhold payment or a portion of payment otherwise due and of a value appropriate for the condition of default.

Order the Subcontractor to remove any defective work or materials and to replace such work or materials with satisfactory work or materials.

Accept any defective work or materials and reduce the Subcontract Sum by Change Order.

Terminate this Agreement for cause in writing. In such case, the General Contractor shall have the right to take and use any materials, equipment, 
or tools of the Subcontractor for the purpose of completing the Work.

In the event this Agreement is terminated for cause, Subcontractor shall not be entitled to receive any further payments until the Subcontract work is complete.
At that time, if the amounts earned, but not paid to Subcontractor before the termination exceed the expenses and damages incurred by General Contractor in
completing Subcontractor's work, any excess shall be paid by General Contractor to Subcontractor. However, if General Contractor's expense and damages to
complete  Subcontractor's  work  exceeds  the  amount  earned  and  unpaid,  Subcontractor  shall  promptly  pay  the  excess  amount  to  General  Contractor.  The
expense incurred by General Contractor shall include General Contractor's costs for completing the work, including overhead, profit, attorney's fees, and any
damages, including Liquidated Damages, incurred by General Contractor by reason of Subcontractor's default. The unpaid expense will accrue interest at the
maximum interest permitted by law.
The liability of the Subcontractor hereunder shall extend to and include the full amount of Costs incurred and obligations assumed by the General Contractor
in  good  faith  under  the  reasonable  belief  that  such  Costs  or  obligations  were  necessary  or  required,  whether  actually  necessary  or  required  or  not,  (i)  in
completing  the  work  and  providing  labor,  materials,  equipment,  supplies  and  other  items  therefor  or  resubcontracting  the  work,  and  (ii)  in  settlement,
discharge or compromise of any claims, demands, suits and judgments pertaining to or arising out of the work. An itemized statement of such obligations and
payments shall be prima facie evidence of the Subcontractor's liability.

Notwithstanding  any  other  provisions  in  this  Agreement,  General  Contractor  reserves  the  sole  discretionary  right  to  require  Subcontractor  to  provide
additional assurances as to Subcontractor's performance. Such additional assurances may include, without limitation, providing of additional guarantees by
financially  responsible  parties,  posting  of  additional  performance  bonds,  providing  updated  financial  information,  posting  collateral,  distribution  of  funds
through  joint  check,  increased  retention  and  providing  proof  of  payment  as  to  Subcontractor's  employees,  Sub-Subcontractors,  material  and  equipment
suppliers,  and  other  creditors;  proof  of  compliance  with  prevailing  wage  and  all  other  wage  and  compensation  laws  and  orders  of  the  Industrial  Wage
Commission pertaining to employee compensation.  Such proof requested by General Contractor may include, but not be limited to, payroll information, labor
records and time records. Failure of Subcontractor to promptly comply with General Contractor's request for additional assurances shall constitute an event of
default under this Agreement.

In addition to termination for cause as described above, the General Contractor may at any time and for any reason in General Contractors' sole discretion,
terminate Subcontractor's services and work at General Contractor's convenience. Termination shall be by service of written notice to Subcontractor's place of
business. Upon receipt of such notice, Subcontractor shall, unless the notice directs otherwise (a) immediately discontinue the work and placing of orders for
materials, facilities and supplies in connection with the performance of the Subcontract work, (b) make every reasonable effort to procure cancellation of all
existing orders or contracts upon terms satisfactory to General Contractor or, at the option of General Contractor, give General Contractor the right to assume
those obligations directly, including all benefits to be derived therefrom.  Subcontractor shall thereafter do only such work as may be necessary to preserve and
protect the work already in progress and to protect material and equipment on the jobsite or in transit thereto.

Upon  such  termination  for  convenience,  Subcontractor  shall  be  entitled  to  payment  only  as  follows:  (a)  the  value  of  the  Subcontract  work    completed  in
conformity with this Agreement, the Subcontract Sum, and approved progress payment schedules, plus (b) such other costs actually incurred by Subcontractor
as permitted by the Prime Contract and approved by the Owner, plus (c) reasonable markup for home office overhead and profit shall be in conformity with
the Subcontract Sum and approved progress payment schedules but in no event shall exceed 15% of the cost of the work, less (d) any deductive credits or
amounts  due  from  Subcontractor  to  General  Contractor  in  accordance  with  this  Agreement.  There  shall  be  deducted  from  such  sums  as  provided  in  this
paragraph the amount of any payments made to Subcontractor prior to the date of the termination of this Agreement. In no event shall payment due hereunder
exceed  the  amount  due  for  approved  units  of  work  or  percentage  of  work  completed  under  this  Agreement  in  accordance  with  approved  applications  for
payment. Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any claim or claim of lien against General Contractor or Owner for any additional compensation or damages in
the  event  of  such  termination  and  payment,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  damages  for  loss  of  anticipated  profit  or  unabsorbed  overhead  for  work  not
performed.

In the event it is determined that a termination of this Agreement for cause by General Contractor was improper, the termination shall be deemed to be a
proper termination for convenience.

Upon Subcontractor default or termination, General Contractor shall have audit rights of the Subcontractor's and Sub-Subcontractor's records.

PMSC07_110

Page 9 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

 
 
