MASTER SUBCONTRACT AGREEMENT

4.

In cases where the lack of Subcontractor's clean-up has evolved into an ongoing problem and has become habitual in nature, General Contractor will not be
required to send out written Notices of deficiency to Subcontractors, but instead can announce the deficiency in the weekly project coordination meeting and
it will become as binding as if a written Notice of deficiency was given.

ARTICLE XIV - WARRANTY

1.

2.

Subcontractor warrants to Owner and General Contractor that the materials and equipment furnished under this Subcontract shall be new unless otherwise
specified and no substitutions to specified materials have been or will be made unless properly approved and authorized. Subcontractor warrants that his work
shall be performed in a professional and workmanlike manner, shall be free from faults and defects, and shall be in accordance with the Contract Documents.
Any  work  not  conforming  to  the  above  requirements  shall  be  considered  defective  and  shall  immediately  be  replaced  upon  Owner  or  General  Contractor
demand  at  the  Subcontractor's  sole  cost  and  expense  during  the  period  of  time  specified  in  the  Prime  Contract  Documents.  Should  the  Prime  Contract
Documents not address the duration of the warranty, it shall begin upon Owner's final acceptance of the Prime Contract Work, or receipt of the "Certificate of
Occupancy", whichever is later, not at completion of the Subcontract work. Unless stated otherwise in the Prime Contract Documents, the warranty period
shall  be  one  year.  If  the  Subcontractor  fails  to  comply  with  its  warranty  obligations,  the  General  Contractor  may  correct  any  deficiencies,  and  the
Subcontractor shall immediately reimburse the General Contractor for all costs, including supervision, overhead, and profit.

Prior to application for final payment, Subcontractor shall deliver to the General Contractor, his Warranty and the warranties of his vendors and suppliers of
material and equipment on forms in accordance with the Prime Contract Documents and/or in a form approved by the General Contractor. The existence of
these Warranties shall not relieve the Subcontractor's liability for defects and shall be in addition to all of the General Contractor's rights under law, and other
warranty, whether express or implied. The General Contractor shall be listed as a beneficiary of all warranties required by the Contract Documents, which
warranties are assignable by General Contractor to Owner or others.

ARTICLE XV - CONTRACT PROVISIONS

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

The Subcontractor shall not, without written consent from the General Contractor, assign, transfer, or sublet the work, in whole or in part, nor assign any
payment hereunder.  Should written consent be given by the General Contractor, it does not relieve the Subcontractor of its responsibilities under this
Subcontract. If Subcontractor subcontracts out any of his work, such Subcontract must incorporate all provisions of this Subcontract.

The price and scope of work as defined in this Subcontract has been reached by mutual agreement of General Contractor and Subcontractor and supersedes all
previous bids, proposals, and correspondence all of which are hereby declared to be null and void.  This Subcontract shall stand alone as the sole document for
interpretation of scope inclusions or exclusions.

No amendment to this Subcontract shall change or modify this Subcontract unless it is in writing and signed by duly authorized representatives of both the
Subcontractor and the General Contractor.

Waiver by General Contractor of any breach or default of this Subcontract by Subcontractor shall not constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach or default
of this Subcontract.

In the event that any provision or any part of this Subcontract shall be determined to be superseded, invalid, illegal, or otherwise unenforceable pursuant to
applicable laws by an authority having jurisdiction, such determination shall not impair or otherwise affect the validity, legality, or enforceability of the
remaining portions of this Subcontract which shall remain in full force as if the unenforceable provisions were deleted.

No provision of this Subcontract shall in any way cause to create a third party beneficiary to this Subcontract.

The captions or titles of any terms or conditions of this Subcontract are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to limit, restrict, or alter the content
meaning or effect thereof.

Subcontract must be counter-executed with proper insurance in place, prior to Subcontractor beginning work on the project and this is also a pre-requisite for
any payment. This requirement can only be waived in writing by an authorized representative of the General Contractor.

Each party and (at the discretion of each party) its counsel cooperated in the drafting and preparation of this Subcontract and the documents referred to herein.
Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any ambiguities in this Subcontract against the party that drafted it, is
not applicable and is hereby expressly waived.

ARTICLE XVI - TERMS OF PAYMENT

1.

2.

3.

The terms of Subcontractor payment shall be determined by the terms of the Prime Contract. General Contractor shall pay the Subcontractor the billing
amount previously submitted and approved, less retention, within seven (7) days of General Contractor receipt of payment from Owner. Retention shall be
10% of the value of the work performed, unless specifically provided otherwise in the Work Order. Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees the retention
provided for in this Article XVI.1 is reasonable.  Retention release shall also be according to the terms of the Prime Contract.

Receipt of payment from Owner for the Subcontract work is an express condition precedent to the obligation of  any payment becoming due from General
Contractor to Subcontractor for the Subcontract Work. If Owner fails to pay General Contractor for Subcontractor's work, then payment is not due from
General  Contractor  to  Subcontractor  unless  and  until  General  Contractor  actually  obtains  payment  from  the  Owner  for  the  Subcontract  work  on  the
Subcontractor's  behalf.  Payment  to  Subcontractor  is  to  be  made  exclusively  from  funds  paid  by  or  on  behalf  of  Owner  to  General  Contractor,  and
Subcontractor assumes and accepts the risk of non-payment by the Owner. General Contractor shall act in good faith to pursue payment from the Owner for
the Subcontract Work, including, but not limited to, exhaustion of General Contractor's collection remedies against the Owner as available under the Prime
Contract and as allowed by law; Subcontractor shall act in good faith to support General Contractor's pursuit of payment from the Owner for the Subcontract
Work.

Subcontractor shall submit its proposed Schedule of Values to General Contractor for review and approval within ten (10) days of receipt of Subcontract. The
Schedule of Values shall contain sufficient detail to be used as a working tool for monthly progress evaluation. The General Contractor has the right to reject
the Subcontractor's Schedule of Values if it is front end loaded, or lacks suitable breakdown or detail to be used for its intended purpose. All Subcontractor's
billings must conform to a Schedule of Values which has previously been reviewed and approved by the General Contractor.

PMSC07_110

Page 12 of

15

Rev. Aug 2017

